..
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   WARNING:  This is a generated file.  Do not edit it manually!
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

.. index::
   single: Video Stimulus
   single: Stimuli; Video Stimulus

.. _Video Stimulus:

Video Stimulus
==============


Description
-----------
A stimulus that plays a video stored in any `video file format
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Video_file_format>`_ supported by the
operating system.

*Note*:  To preserve the video's aspect ratio on screen, `x_size`_ and
`y_size`_ must be equal.  When drawn, the larger dimension spans the full
specified size, while the smaller dimension is scaled to maintain the
aspect ratio.

*Note*:  If the video contains an `alpha channel
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alpha_compositing>`_, the embedded alpha
value for each pixel is multiplied by the value of `alpha_multiplier`_.



Signature
---------
``stimulus/video``


Required Parameters
-------------------

path
^^^^

Filesystem path to the video file



Optional Parameters
-------------------

volume
^^^^^^
:Default: ``0.0``

Output audio volume (floating-point value between 0 and 1, where 0 is muted and 1 is full system volume)


loop
^^^^
:Default: ``NO``

If ``YES``, the video will repeat indefinitely (or until `Stop Dynamic Stimulus` is invoked)


repeats
^^^^^^^
:Default: ``0``

Number of times to repeat the video.  Note that the video will always
play at least once, even if this value is less than one.

If `loop`_ is ``YES``, this parameter is ignored.


ended
^^^^^

Variable that will be set to true after the video ends.  If `repeats`_ is greater than 1, the variable will be set only once, after all repetitions are complete.  If `loop`_ is ``YES``, the variable will never be set.


alpha_multiplier
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
:Default: ``1.0``

By default, the alpha multiplier controls the transparency of the
stimulus.  ``1.0`` is fully opaque, while ``0.0`` is fully tranparent.

Changes to the parameters `source_blend_factor`_ and
`dest_blend_factor`_ can alter how (or if) the alpha multiplier is used.


source_blend_factor
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
:Options: | ``zero``
          | ``one``
          | ``source_color``
          | ``one_minus_source_color``
          | ``dest_color``
          | ``one_minus_dest_color``
          | ``source_alpha``
          | ``one_minus_source_alpha``
          | ``dest_alpha``
          | ``one_minus_dest_alpha``
:Default: ``source_alpha``

Source blending factor.

The parameters `source_blend_factor`_, `dest_blend_factor`_,
`source_alpha_blend_factor`_, and `dest_alpha_blend_factor`_ provide
detailed control over how the color components and alpha multiplier of
each fragment of the stimulus (the "source") are combined with the color
and alpha values already present in the framebuffer (the "destination"),
which in turn result from blending the stimulus display background with
any stimuli drawn beneath the source stimulus.  These parameters
correspond directly to the four arguments of the `OpenGL
<https://www.opengl.org>`_ function `glBlendFuncSeparate
<https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glBlendFuncSeparate.xhtml>`_.
Please refer to that function's reference page for explanations of the
different blend factor options.

*Note*:  Irrespective of the blend factors used, the `blend equation
<https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glBlendEquation.xhtml>`_
is always ``GL_FUNC_ADD``.


dest_blend_factor
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
:Default: ``one_minus_source_alpha``

Destination blending factor.  Accepts the same values as `source_blend_factor`_.


source_alpha_blend_factor
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Source alpha blending factor.  Accepts the same values as
`source_blend_factor`_.

If omitted, the value of `source_blend_factor`_ is used.


dest_alpha_blend_factor
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Destination alpha blending factor.  Accepts the same values as
`source_blend_factor`_.

If omitted, the value of `dest_blend_factor`_ is used.


x_size
^^^^^^
:Example: ``5.0``

Horizontal size (degrees).

If omitted, the value of `y_size`_ is used.  It is an error to omit both
x_size and y_size (unless `fullscreen`_ is ``YES``).


y_size
^^^^^^
:Example: ``5.0``

Vertical size (degrees).

If omitted, the value of `x_size`_ is used.  It is an error to omit both
x_size and y_size (unless `fullscreen`_ is ``YES``).


x_position
^^^^^^^^^^
:Default: ``0.0``

Horizontal center position (degrees)

y_position
^^^^^^^^^^
:Default: ``0.0``

Vertical center position (degrees)

rotation
^^^^^^^^
:Default: ``0.0``

Rotation (degrees)

fullscreen
^^^^^^^^^^
:Default: ``NO``

If ``YES``, the stimulus is sized to fill the display.  In this mode, `x_size`_, `y_size`_, `x_position`_, `y_position`_, and `rotation`_ are ignored.


deferred
^^^^^^^^
:Options: | ``no``
          | ``yes``
          | ``explicit``
:Default: ``no``

Controls when the stimulus is loaded.  If ``no``, the stimulus is loaded at experiment load time.  If ``yes``, the stimulus is loaded the first time it is `queued <Queue Stimulus>`.  If ``explicit``, the stimulus must be loaded explictly with `Load Stimulus`.


autoplay
^^^^^^^^
:Default: ``NO``

If ``YES``, the stimulus will start playing automatically (as if by an implicit `Play Dynamic Stimulus` action) after it has been `queued <Queue Stimulus>` and `Update Stimulus Display` has been invoked.  It will also stop playing automatically (as if by an implicit `Stop Dynamic Stimulus` action) after it has been `dequeued <Dequeue Stimulus>` and `Update Stimulus Display` is invoked.




Placement
---------
.. list-table::
   :widths: auto
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Allowed at top level:
     - Yes
   * - Allowed parent:
     - `Folder`, `Frame List Stimulus`, `Layer Stimulus`, `List Replicator`, `Movie Stimulus`, `Range Replicator`, `Stimulus Group`
